---
layout: post 
title: May 26th - Day 1
categories: [content, demo]
---
Today was the first day of classes (although, the date I am posting this is slightly delayed). The opening meeting featured a lecture from Ichiro Fujinaga, a professor involved in the work of Optical Music Recognition, a project that allowed machines to change sheet music into machine-readable text. He explained the importance of “laziness,” which involves being patient in one’s effort to obtain results and the willingness to search for and employ efficient approaches can improve one’s research. He specifically focused on how this was relevant to machine learning, and how teaching a machine to work in similar “lazy” ways could improve project efficiency, adaptability, and overall results. I then met with my instructor, Professor Connie, for the course Text Encoding Initiative Fundamentals and their Application. The class and teacher did introductions with each other, where we shared our names, the colleges we were visiting from, and our ideas for a potential project to work ion during the course. Professor Connie then began to explain the ways in which texts could be analyzed by having the class examine and mark details and points of interest in a pair of letters concerning the Cleveland Browns. The class discussed ways in which the papers could be analyzed and how certain elements may be interpreted, including analysis by comparing the two letters. After a lunch break, we returned to the class. Professor Connie discussed the history of XML, or Markup Language, a computer language that allows for humans to encode text data into a computer independent of any software or website. The class was explained that XML worked as a series of boxes or containers that a computer can use to identify certain elements as distinct and do certain things with them as a result. The Professor then explained that the TEI, or Text Encoding Initiative, was a project that used a specialized version of XML, known from here onwards as TEI. The class closed by going through some of the specific tags used to create distinguishing boxes in TEI, and downloading the software that we would use to practice TEI and a folder of practice materials. We will begin with the direct practice of encoding on the 27th. This class went more smoothly than I initially feared, but I am still a bit worried about my ability to encode, as my experience with this blog has taught me that I am prone to making errors when asked to think in the ways that computers “think” by using computer languages. On the brought side, everyone was very nice. Hopefully Professor Connie will be patient with my inexperience and be able to help me when I make errors.
