---
layout: post 
title: Post Conference Reflection
categories: [content, demo]
---
This is my after-action overview of the DHSI. I have now returned home from the trip. I appreciated being able to learn how to use .xml files and more about the practical applications and databases related to TEI as a project. I am glad that I was able to learn so much in a short amount of time, but part of me is worried that I may struggle to retain some of the information. Furthermore, I am still slightly unsure of how I can incorporate TEI and .xml file knowledge into my own projects and interests. I have a focus on history, but also film studies and the examination of media such as advertisements and newspaper articles. Many films and newspaper articles have not passed into the public domain, and advertisements are hard to identify copyright for, which means that if I enact a TEI project that uses xml files to annotate and study films, it will have to remain a private endeavor. This could still be useful for purposes of notetaking and analysis, but it would make it less viable for its application to a database project. I also often struggle with large projects that do not have a direct goal in mind, so I believe that, if I wish to make more progress in .xml projects, such as the Out of The East annotation that I have begun to work on, I will need to set small, measurable objectives in order to keep myself moving forward on the project. One thing that I believe that I should eventually do is find out more about Japanese-language TEI programs and the guide to Japanese language .xml guidelines. I am interested in doing more to study Japanese texts, and Professor Connie said there was an extensive Japanese-language community for TEI projects. However, before I do that, I will need to improve my own Japanese comprehension skills.
