---
layout: post 
title: May 30th - Day 5
categories: [content, demo]
---
	On the final day. Professor Connie took several samples of class members’ encoding projects to include in their closing presentation for this week of DHSI. I decided to not submit a sample, as I felt that my encoding and text were not complete enough to act as a good example of the classwork, and I did not have the USB port adaptor that would make a data transfer relatively quick. Professor Connie explained to the class the cost of the Oxygen XML Editor and offered some possible ways to get a discounted price or an extended trial with the help of one’s university. Since the work of TEI aspires to be as open-siource as it can be, they also discussed some free software that could be used to write, run, and interpret xml files, should cost be an issue. The two software that they recommended were Leafwriter and Visual Studio Code with the assistance of the Scholarly XML Schema to identify the rules for XML coding. The class also got to call and briefly talk to Lee Zieckel, who designed the slides for the TEI Fundamentals and their Application course but was unable to attend the course in person this year. Lastly, Professor Connie gave the class some advice on possible courses to take in order to build on certain skills that the class began to explore if we chose to return to the Digital Humanities Summer Institute next year, as well as possible groups to join that shared similar academic interests that were employing TEI and some future workshops and events related to TEI and digital humanities. After that, we returned to the conference room, where we received boxed lunches. There, each professor gave a summary of the course they covered, there was a special presentation from Amanda Lawrence on the possible rewards and risks of Wikipedia interactions with AI, and the institute leaders made some closing remarks before ending week one of the DHSI. As I am not going to week 2 of the DHSI, this is my final entry on the program itself. My project on Hearn’s Out of The East has begun, but it is a relatively large text, so I am still slightly unsure of what directions of possible organization and annotations I should prioritize. However, I still hope to continue this project at some point, even if it is only for my own personal interest and convenience.
