---
layout: post
title: May 28 - Day 3
categories: [content, demo]
---
Day 3 had us working on increasing our practical experience with TEI encoding, while Professor Connie explained certain elements of the file and providing a crash course in the TEI vocabulary that would be useful for documenting different media. This included a discussion of the vocabulary used to encode manuscripts, images, graphs, poetry, and instances of handwriting. Professor Connie taught us about the building the header of TEI documents, as well as its relation to copyright, open access, and source attribution. They provided us with two examples of headers, was one that was relatively minimal and another header that composed the majority of the TEI file. After that, we began to work on updating and refining the headers for our own personal projects. The class examined the tag “<choice></choice>,” which could be used to contain multiple variants of a word or phrase without editing or erasing what the text originally said, reflecting the differences in spelling, misspellings, and abbreviations. As a class, we also learned about the tags for additions, deletions, and substitutions, allowing us to make machines able to read and identify the edits and changes that exist within a text without removing any of the materials that predate the edits. Throughout the day, the class did further work on each of their personal projects. Professor Connie concluded by declaring that TEI was useful not just for its ability to store and present data, but also to construct intricate models and analyses that would take much longer without the aid of the machine reading the text. MI have begun to add to my TEI header, but I do not believe that I am finished with the details that I want to add. The project on Hearn has been fun, but slightly overwhelming. As of now, I am only examining the text Out of The East, but I hope to incorporate more works into a potential future version of the project. I also definitely need to begin to build a bibliography, as I keep realizing that certain stories and elements of personal analysis should reference outside sources that explain the context. I also must expand my “Person-ography,” my file that contains the names and descriptions of the various people mentioned and alluded to in Out of the East. Given that there are so many potential paths forward, I am feeling slightly overwhelmed by choice paralysis. 
