---
layout: post
title: May 27th - Day 2
categories: [content, demo]
---
  Today was the beginning of us learning to use TEI through hands-on work. The class started by taking the two letters that we had examined on Monday manually and uploading them as pre-made templates that we then marked-up and annotated. By giving everyone a common text, it was easier for Professor Connie to help us with any errors we ran into. Eventually, we moved onto our own projects. I have begun to take excerpts from Hearn’s Out of the East that mention the interpreter and servant Manyemon and place them into a TEI file. I am hoping that this will be the beginning of a project where I identify the words (or attributed words) of Hearn’s Japanese friends, interpreters, and interviewees, comparing and contrasting their ideas with Hearn’s own in hopes of both illuminating these obscured figures and obtaining more data on beliefs within Japanese society in this period. Furthermore, I hope to present more detailed notes regarding Hearn’s relationships, which are often implied and referenced rather than directly stated in his published writings. Lastly, I hope to [provide greater historical and social context, as well as definitions and notes on updates spellings/namings, in order to make Hearn’s texts more accessible and helpful to a wider range of readers. After a break for lunch, the class began to examine how to construct inter- and intra-text connections using TEI. This involves the creation of Absolute and Relative file paths, which are directions that allow computers to navigate to a file either from the root computer or from one file to another, respectively. We were quizzed on our ability to identify the locations that file paths would direct to. After a short break, we began to discuss how to build and reference a Personography, a collection of data on the various people discussed in the texts we were examining. After class, I decided to go to the Conference and Colloquium, where educators and scholars discuss their ideas in relation to the digital humanities. While not every lecture was captured my interests, I took notes on the subjects that I found fascinating. I enjoyed the lecture by Jesse Thomas that discussed the archival work being done with the Discorder magazines with the aid of a digital archive and Andie Silva’s discussion of an ongoing digital project analyzing paratexts (dedications, introductions, etc.) written by stationers (printers, booksellers, bookbinders, etc.) within the Early Modern Period of European history. I am excited about the inter/intra-text connections that our class is learning, but I think it will be a while before I am efficient during the TEI encoding process.
