---
layout: post
title: May 29th - Day 4
categories: [content, demo]
---
On Day 4, our class looked at the larger elements undergirding TEI coding, as well as how to manage a TEI project, possible ways to utilize and display the encoded texts, and examples of other TEI projects. Professor Connie highlighted the purpose of Schema in TEI, explaining how they function as a set of rules that shape the .xml file in specific ways, and templates can be modified to more closely suit the project one is doing, making efforts more efficient. They then explained how to make a custom schema by creating an example schema, then encouraging the class to try to follow the same instructions. After that, the class was given some time to work on personal projects. We also discussed Xpath, a language that quickly analyses the details of a the encoded xml file and can present them to a person, including such elements as counting the number of occurrences of one name or the number of contributions from one author, allowing a reader to understand data more quickly and visualize it more clearly by having the computer essentially do one-half of the analysis. Following lunch, there was a discussion of the possible challenges one might face in publishing a project and an overview of some questions one might want to ask oneself when planning an encoding project. There was a brief discussion of XSL, which is used to translate XML files into HTML for websites and other coding. At the end of the day, Professor Connie shared examples with the class of online projects that were encoded and created using TEI, such as their own contributions to The ArQuives, a queer history digital humanities project, a Map of Early Modern London by University of Victoria and a project archiving Charles Darwin’s correspondence. This was done in order to demonstrate the concrete results of the work of TEI encoding, allowing us to have a more concrete image of what was possible with our TEI work.  I also went to the Thursday conference and colloquium, where various scholars presented about their own work and its connections to the digital humanities. The presentations discussing the use of digital humanities to map social networks among enslaved Black people in Mexico City and the analysis of the “anti-gender” transphobic movement as a form of technologically assisted, philosophical colonization were both deeply interesting. 
